Lite split (#1)
james-aung/mle-bench: README.md

Code for the paper ["MLE-Bench: Evaluating Machine Learning Agents on Machine Learning Engineering"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07095). We have released the code used to construct the dataset, the evaluation logic, as well as the agents we evaluated for this benchmark.

> ## Results
> 
> The table below shows the scores from the paper of models on MLE-Bench Lite and MLE-Bench, on the headline metric of 'percentage of submissions where the model achieved any medal'.
> 
> | Model                      | MLE-Bench Lite (%) | MLE-Bench (%) |
> | -------------------------- | -----------------: | ------------: |
> | **AIDE**                   |                    |               |
> | o1-preview                 |         34.3 ± 2.4 |    16.9 ± 1.1 |
> | gpt-4o-2024-08-06          |         19.0 ± 1.3 |     8.6 ± 0.5 |
> | llama-3.1-405b-instruct    |          8.3 ± 2.6 |     3.1 ± 0.9 |
> | claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620 |         19.4 ± 4.9 |     7.5 ± 1.8 |
> | **MLAB**                   |                    |               |
> | gpt-4o-2024-08-06          |          4.2 ± 1.5 |     1.3 ± 0.5 |
> | **OpenHands**              |                    |               |
> | gpt-4o-2024-08-06          |         11.5 ± 3.4 |     5.1 ± 1.3 |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benchmarking

This section describes a canonical setup for comparing scores on MLE-bench. We recommend the following:
- Repeat each evaluation with at least 3 seeds and report the Any Medal (%) score as the mean ± one standard error of the mean. The evaluation (task and grading) itself is deterministic, but agents/LLMs can be quite high-variance!
- Agent resources - not a strict requirement of the benchmark but please report if you stray from these defaults!
  - Runtime: 24 hours
  - Compute: 36 vCPUs with 440GB RAM and one 24GB A10 GPU
- Include a breakdown of your scores across Low, Medium, High, and All complexity [splits](experiments/splits) (see *Lite evaluation* below for why this is useful).

We demonstrate how this looks in practice by reporting the main results from [our paper (Table 2)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07095) in the table below:

| Agent | Low (%) | Medium (%) | High (%) | All (%) |
|---------|--------|-----------|---------|----------|
| AIDE o1-preview | 34.3 ± 2.4 | 8.8 ± 1.1 | 10.0 ± 1.9 | 16.9 ± 1.1 |
| AIDE gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 19.0 ± 1.3 | 3.2 ± 0.5 | 5.6 ± 1.0 | 8.6 ± 0.5 |
| AIDE claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620 | 19.4 ± 4.9 | 2.6 ± 1.5 | 2.3 ± 2.3 | 7.5 ± 1.8 |
| OpenHands gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 11.5 ± 3.4 | 2.2 ± 1.3 | 1.9 ± 1.9 | 5.1 ± 1.3 |
| AIDE llama-3.1-405b-instruct | 8.3 ± 2.6 | 1.2 ± 0.8 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 3.1 ± 0.9 |
| MLAB gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 4.2 ± 1.5 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 1.3 ± 0.5 |

### Lite Evaluation

Evaluating agents with the above settings on the full 75 competitions of MLE-bench can be expensive. For users preferring a "lite" version of the benchmark, we recommend using the [Low complexity split](https://github.com/openai/mle-bench/blob/main/experiments/splits/low.txt) of our dataset, which consists of only 22 competitions. This reduces the number of runs substantially, while still allowing fair comparison along one column of the table above.

Furthermore, the Low complexity competitions tend to be significantly more lightweight (see below), so users may additionally consider reducing the runtime or compute resources available to the agents for further cost reduction. However, note that doing so risks degrading the performance of your agent. For example, see [Section 3.3 and 3.4 of our paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07095) where we have experimented with varying resources on the full competition set.

The Lite dataset contains the following competitions:

| Competition ID                              | Category                   | Dataset Size (GB) |
|---------------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------|
| aerial-cactus-identification                | Image Classification       | 0.0254            |
| aptos2019-blindness-detection               | Image Classification       | 10.22             |
| denoising-dirty-documents                   | Image To Image             | 0.06              |
| detecting-insults-in-social-commentary      | Text Classification        | 0.002             |
| dog-breed-identification                    | Image Classification       | 0.75              |
| dogs-vs-cats-redux-kernels-edition          | Image Classification       | 0.85              |
| histopathologic-cancer-detection            | Image Regression           | 7.76              |
| jigsaw-toxic-comment-classification-challenge | Text Classification        | 0.06              |
| leaf-classification                         | Image Classification       | 0.036             |
| mlsp-2013-birds                             | Audio Classification       | 0.5851            |
| new-york-city-taxi-fare-prediction          | Tabular                   | 5.7               |
| nomad2018-predict-transparent-conductors    | Tabular                   | 0.00624           |
| plant-pathology-2020-fgvc7                  | Image Classification       | 0.8               |
| random-acts-of-pizza                        | Text Classification        | 0.003             |
| ranzcr-clip-catheter-line-classification    | Image Classification       | 13.13             |
| siim-isic-melanoma-classification           | Image Classification       | 116.16            |
| spooky-author-identification                | Text Classification        | 0.0019            |
| tabular-playground-series-dec-2021          | Tabular                   | 0.7               |
| tabular-playground-series-may-2022          | Tabular                   | 0.57              |
| text-normalization-challenge-english-language | Seq->Seq                 | 0.01              |
| text-normalization-challenge-russian-language | Seq->Seq                 | 0.01              |
| the-icml-2013-whale-challenge-right-whale-redux | Audio Classification     | 0.29314           |

```

| Agent | Low (%) | Medium (%) | High (%) | All (%) |
|---------|--------|-----------|---------|----------|
| AIDE o1-preview | 34.3 ± 2.4 | 8.8 ± 1.1 | 10.0 ± 1.9 | 16.9 ± 1.1 |
| AIDE gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 19.0 ± 1.3 | 3.2 ± 0.5 | 5.6 ± 1.0 | 8.6 ± 0.5 |
| AIDE claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620 | 19.4 ± 4.9 | 2.6 ± 1.5 | 2.3 ± 2.3 | 7.5 ± 1.8 |
| OpenHands gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 11.5 ± 3.4 | 2.2 ± 1.3 | 1.9 ± 1.9 | 5.1 ± 1.3 |
| AIDE llama-3.1-405b-instruct | 8.3 ± 2.6 | 1.2 ± 0.8 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 3.1 ± 0.9 |
| MLAB gpt-4o-2024-08-06 | 4.2 ± 1.5 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 0.0 ± 0.0 | 1.3 ± 0.5 |

### Lite Evaluation

Evaluating agents with the above settings on the full 75 competitions of MLE-bench can be expensive. For users preferring a "lite" version of the benchmark, we recommend using the [Low complexity split](https://github.com/openai/mle-bench/blob/main/experiments/splits/low.txt) of our dataset, which consists of only 22 competitions. This reduces the number of runs substantially, while still allowing fair comparison along one column of the table above.

> Furthermore, the Low complexity competitions tend to be significantly more lightweight (see below), so users may additionally consider reducing the runtime or compute resources available to the agents for further cost reduction. However, note that doing so risks degrading the performance of your agent. For example, see [Section 3.3 and 3.4 of our paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07095) where we have experimented with varying resources on the full competition set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the Low complexity competitions tend to be significantly more lightweight (158GB total dataset size compared to 3.3TB for the full set), so users may additionally consider reducing the runtime or compute resources available to the agents for further cost reduction. However, note that doing so risks degrading the performance of your agent. For example, see [Section 3.3 and 3.4 of our paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07095) where we have experimented with varying resources on the full competition set.
```

Run `mlebench prepare --help` to see the list of available competitions.

> ### MLE-bench Lite

Reviewer: Can drop this section if we're explaining Lite in the Benchmarking section above; let's just keep

````
To prepare the lite dataset, run:

```console
mlebench prepare --lite
```
````

but let's do this immediately after the `mlebench prepare --all`

Author: removed here [remove old mle-b lite section](https://github.com/james-aung/mle-bench/pull/1/commits/67053058dda438e085c38b23427066855f93cccd)
